docs/stellarphot/getting_started.rst, before:

Getting started
###############

Installation
============

If you are testing a pre-release version of stellarphot we recommend setting up
a virtual environment and installing stellarphot in this environment.

Only use one of the methods below for making a virtual environment.

Creating an environment with `conda` or `mamba` (use whichever one you have installed)::

    mamba create -n stellarphot-test python=3.11
    mamba activate stellarphot-test
    pip install --pre stellarphot

Creating an environment with `virtualenv`::

    python -m venv stellarphot-test
    source stellarphot-test/bin/activate
    pip install --pre stellarphot

To install stellarphot without creating an environment, use::

    pip install --pre stellarphot

You can remove stellarphot with::

    pip uninstall stellarphot

Overview
========

You will go through this process to do photometry:

#. You need to make some equipment-related settings, like camera properties, observatory information, and passband maps. You may
   only need to do this step once if you use the same equipment for all of your observations.
#. Settings specific to an object need to be made:

   #. Some settings, like the photometry aperture size, may need to be changed for each night.
   #. Others, like a list of the sources for which you want to perform photometry in a particular
      field, can be reused.

#. Review all of the settings that the photometry routines will use.
#. Once those settings have been done, you can perform photometry on your images.


Graphical interface for making settings and doing photometry
============================================================

A graphical interface is provided via JupyterLab to make settings. To start JupyterLab, run the following command
in a terminal::

    jupyter lab

If you open up JupyterLab, the launcher should have a section that looks like this:

.. image:: /_static/launcher.png
    :width: 400px
    :alt: JupyterLab Launcher with stellarphot notebooks

Each of the notebooks corresponds to the steps in the previous section. Open each notebook in order, and run
all of the cells in the notebook. In each will be a graphical interface to enter the camera and other settings
(in notebook 1), measuring the seeing and choose comparison stars (in notebook 2), review all of your settings
(in notebook 3), and perform photometry (in notebook 4).

When the photometry is done there will be a new notebook called `photometry_run.ipynb` that will have a record
of the photometry that was done.

Editing a settings file directly
================================

The settings file is a JSON file that can be edited in any text editor. A sample json file is at


Performing photometry from within a Python script
=================================================

Once you have made your settings doing photometry is a two line process. First, you
create a photometry object::

    from stellarphot.photometry import AperturePhotometry
    from stellarphot.settings import PhotometryWorkingDirSettings
    photometry_settings = PhotometryWorkingDirSettings().load()
    phot = AperturePhotometry(settings=photometry_settings)

Then you can perform photometry on a single image::

    phot(image)

If you have a directory of images you can perform photometry on all of them at once like this::

    phot(directory, object_of_interest="M13")

Commit message:

Add JSON examples to documentation

docs/stellarphot/getting_started.rst, after:

Getting started
###############

Installation
============

If you are testing a pre-release version of stellarphot we recommend setting up
a virtual environment and installing stellarphot in this environment.

Only use one of the methods below for making a virtual environment.

Creating an environment with `conda` or `mamba` (use whichever one you have installed)::

    mamba create -n stellarphot-test python=3.11
    mamba activate stellarphot-test
    pip install --pre stellarphot

Creating an environment with `virtualenv`::

    python -m venv stellarphot-test
    source stellarphot-test/bin/activate
    pip install --pre stellarphot

To install stellarphot without creating an environment, use::

    pip install --pre stellarphot

You can remove stellarphot with::

    pip uninstall stellarphot

Overview
========

You will go through this process to do photometry:

#. You need to make some equipment-related settings, like camera properties, observatory information, and passband maps. You may
   only need to do this step once if you use the same equipment for all of your observations.
#. Settings specific to an object need to be made:

   #. Some settings, like the photometry aperture size, may need to be changed for each night.
   #. Others, like a list of the sources for which you want to perform photometry in a particular
      field, can be reused.

#. Review all of the settings that the photometry routines will use.
#. Once those settings have been done, you can perform photometry on your images.


Graphical interface for making settings and doing photometry
============================================================

A graphical interface is provided via JupyterLab to make settings. To start JupyterLab, run the following command
in a terminal::

    jupyter lab

If you open up JupyterLab, the launcher should have a section that looks like this:

.. image:: /_static/launcher.png
    :width: 400px
    :alt: JupyterLab Launcher with stellarphot notebooks

Each of the notebooks corresponds to the steps in the previous section. Open each notebook in order, and run
all of the cells in the notebook. In each will be a graphical interface to enter the camera and other settings
(in notebook 1), measuring the seeing and choose comparison stars (in notebook 2), review all of your settings
(in notebook 3), and perform photometry (in notebook 4).

When the photometry is done there will be a new notebook called `photometry_run.ipynb` that will have a record
of the photometry that was done.

Editing a settings file directly
================================

The settings file is a JSON file that can be edited in any text editor. A sample setting
file is below, along with the JSON schema, which is a formal description of the settings file.

.. include:: ../auto_examples/index.rst

Performing photometry from within a Python script
=================================================

Once you have made your settings doing photometry is a two line process. First, you
create a photometry object::

    from stellarphot.photometry import AperturePhotometry
    from stellarphot.settings import PhotometryWorkingDirSettings
    photometry_settings = PhotometryWorkingDirSettings().load()
    phot = AperturePhotometry(settings=photometry_settings)

Then you can perform photometry on a single image::

    phot(image)

If you have a directory of images you can perform photometry on all of them at once like this::

    phot(directory, object_of_interest="M13")
