README.md, before:

# A package for transforming stellar photometry

[![Powered by Astropy Badge](http://img.shields.io/badge/powered%20by-AstroPy-orange.svg?style=flat)](http://www.astropy.org) [![GitHub Workflow badge](https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/actions?query=workflow%3ATest) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/feder-observatory/stellarphot/graph/badge.svg?token=uVrdNencSQ)](https://codecov.io/gh/feder-observatory/stellarphot) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.10679636.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10679636)


+ If you already have aperture photometry for a field,
    * calculate relative flux (like [AstroImageJ](https://www.astro.louisville.edu/software/astroimagej/)), and/or
    * calculate calibrated magnitudes by transforming to a catalog (e.g. APASS DR9)
+ If you have calibrated images but haven't done photometry yet, you can do aperture photometry on your images.
+ If you have not calibrated your images, `stellarphot` can help -- choose the


## Installation

You can install `stellarphot` with either pip or conda. `conda` is recommended at the moment because of an issue with installing one of the dependencies of `stellarphot` in Python 3.9 or higher

Install with `conda`:

```
conda install -c conda-forge stellarphot reducer
pip install astronbs
```

or install with `pip`:

```
pip install stellarphot reducer astronbs
```

## Running stellarphot

1. Start Jupyterlab from the command line: `jupyter lab`
2. Open the Launcher (see below)
3. Click on the notebook you want (see below)
4. Output files will show up in the file browser
5. Questions? Feel free to contact @mwcraig

<img width="833" alt="stellarphot-screenshot" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1147167/200139186-100934ca-6d1e-46f9-ac89-a83d05528bb2.png">


## Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="http://mwcraig.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1147167?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Matt Craig"/><br /><sub><b>Matt Craig</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3Amwcraig" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=mwcraig" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-mwcraig" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#ideas-mwcraig" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#maintenance-mwcraig" title="Maintenance">🚧</a> <a href="#mentoring-mwcraig" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="#research-mwcraig" title="Research">🔬</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Amwcraig" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=mwcraig" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="#tutorial-mwcraig" title="Tutorials">✅</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://web.mnstate.edu/cabanela/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1940512?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Juan Cabanela"/><br /><sub><b>Juan Cabanela</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3AJuanCab" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=JuanCab" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-JuanCab" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#ideas-JuanCab" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#maintenance-JuanCab" title="Maintenance">🚧</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3AJuanCab" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=JuanCab" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/madelyn914"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/56169991?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="madelyn914"/><br /><sub><b>madelyn914</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#ideas-madelyn914" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#userTesting-madelyn914" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/AbigaleMoen"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/112969124?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Abby"/><br /><sub><b>Abby</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#userTesting-AbigaleMoen" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/MDeRung2021"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/90003875?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="MDeRung2021"/><br /><sub><b>MDeRung2021</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3AMDeRung2021" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="#userTesting-MDeRung2021" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Tanner728"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/90003838?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Tanner Weyer"/><br /><sub><b>Tanner Weyer</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=Tanner728" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3ATanner728" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="#userTesting-Tanner728" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/WatsonEmily11"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/99451181?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Emily Watson"/><br /><sub><b>Emily Watson</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3AWatsonEmily11" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="#userTesting-WatsonEmily11" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Mamizou"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35544119?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Adam Kline"/><br /><sub><b>Adam Kline</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=Mamizou" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#userTesting-Mamizou" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Sondanaa"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9082828?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Elias Holte"/><br /><sub><b>Elias Holte</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=Sondanaa" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/pllim/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2090236?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="P. L. Lim"/><br /><sub><b>P. L. Lim</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#maintenance-pllim" title="Maintenance">🚧</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/clkotnik"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26798912?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="clkotnik"/><br /><sub><b>clkotnik</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#ideas-clkotnik" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/meyerpa"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14203298?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Paige Meyer"/><br /><sub><b>Paige Meyer</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=meyerpa" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/stottsco"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14881940?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="stottsco"/><br /><sub><b>stottsco</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=stottsco" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" size="13px" colspan="7">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/all-contributors/all-contributors-cli/1b8533af435da9854653492b1327a23a4dbd0a10/assets/logo-small.svg">
          <a href="https://all-contributors.js.org/docs/en/bot/usage">Add your contributions</a>
        </img>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->


## License

This project is Copyright (c) 2019-2024 The Stellarphot Team and licensed under
the terms of the BSD 3-Clause license. This package is based upon
the [Astropy package template](https://github.com/astropy/package-template)
which is licensed under the BSD 3-clause license.

Commit message:

Updated README.md to include a little more about the goals of stellarphot and some refinement to the installation instructions.

README.md, after:

# A Python Package for Transforming Stellar Photometry

[![Powered by Astropy Badge](http://img.shields.io/badge/powered%20by-AstroPy-orange.svg?style=flat)](http://www.astropy.org) [![GitHub Workflow badge](https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/actions?query=workflow%3ATest) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/feder-observatory/stellarphot/graph/badge.svg?token=uVrdNencSQ)](https://codecov.io/gh/feder-observatory/stellarphot) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.10679636.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10679636)

Stellarphot provides a Python package and accompanying Jupyter notebooks to allow you to turn reduced astronomical images of point sources (e.g. stars) into calibrated astronomical photometry, with a focus on variable star and exoplanet transit observations.  Specifically:

+ If you have reduced astronomical images as FITS files but haven't obtained photometry yet, `stellarphot` can perform aperture photometry on your images.
+ If you already have aperture photometry for a field, `stellarphot` can 
  * calculate relative flux (like [AstroImageJ](https://www.astro.louisville.edu/software/astroimagej/)), and/or
  * calculate calibrated magnitudes by transforming to a catalog (e.g. APASS DR9)
+ If you are working with exoplanet transit observations, `stellarphot` can turns the photometry into exoplanet transit light curves (see installation notes below).

## Installation

You can install `stellarphot` with either `pip` or `conda`.  If you are interested in `stellarphot` for exoplanet transit light curves, `conda` is recommended at the moment because of an issue with installing one of the dependencies.

+ Install with `conda`:

  	conda install -c conda-forge stellarphot reducer
  	pip install astronbs

  * If you are interested in exoplanet light curve fitting, also install `batman` via 

    	conda install -c conda-forge batman-package

+ Install with `pip`:

  	pip install stellarphot reducer astronbs

  * If you are interested in exoplanet light curve fitting, also  install `batman` via:

    	pip install batman-package

## Getting started with stellarphot

1. Start Jupyterlab from the command line: `jupyter lab`
2. Once JupyterLab opens in your web browser, open the Launcher (see Figure below)
3. Click on the notebook you want  (see Figure below) and follow the instructions in the notebook.  Any output files will show up in the file browser

<img width="833" alt="stellarphot-screenshot" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1147167/200139186-100934ca-6d1e-46f9-ac89-a83d05528bb2.png">

## Questions? 

Feel free to contact @mwcraig with your questions about using `stellarphot`.

## Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="http://mwcraig.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1147167?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Matt Craig"/><br /><sub><b>Matt Craig</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3Amwcraig" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=mwcraig" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-mwcraig" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#ideas-mwcraig" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#maintenance-mwcraig" title="Maintenance">🚧</a> <a href="#mentoring-mwcraig" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="#research-mwcraig" title="Research">🔬</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Amwcraig" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=mwcraig" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="#tutorial-mwcraig" title="Tutorials">✅</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://web.mnstate.edu/cabanela/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1940512?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Juan Cabanela"/><br /><sub><b>Juan Cabanela</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3AJuanCab" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=JuanCab" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-JuanCab" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#ideas-JuanCab" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#maintenance-JuanCab" title="Maintenance">🚧</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3AJuanCab" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=JuanCab" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/madelyn914"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/56169991?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="madelyn914"/><br /><sub><b>madelyn914</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#ideas-madelyn914" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="#userTesting-madelyn914" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/AbigaleMoen"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/112969124?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Abby"/><br /><sub><b>Abby</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#userTesting-AbigaleMoen" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/MDeRung2021"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/90003875?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="MDeRung2021"/><br /><sub><b>MDeRung2021</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3AMDeRung2021" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="#userTesting-MDeRung2021" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Tanner728"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/90003838?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Tanner Weyer"/><br /><sub><b>Tanner Weyer</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=Tanner728" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3ATanner728" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="#userTesting-Tanner728" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/WatsonEmily11"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/99451181?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Emily Watson"/><br /><sub><b>Emily Watson</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/issues?q=author%3AWatsonEmily11" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="#userTesting-WatsonEmily11" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Mamizou"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35544119?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Adam Kline"/><br /><sub><b>Adam Kline</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=Mamizou" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#userTesting-Mamizou" title="User Testing">📓</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Sondanaa"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9082828?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Elias Holte"/><br /><sub><b>Elias Holte</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=Sondanaa" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/pllim/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2090236?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="P. L. Lim"/><br /><sub><b>P. L. Lim</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#maintenance-pllim" title="Maintenance">🚧</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/clkotnik"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26798912?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="clkotnik"/><br /><sub><b>clkotnik</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#ideas-clkotnik" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/meyerpa"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14203298?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Paige Meyer"/><br /><sub><b>Paige Meyer</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=meyerpa" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/stottsco"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14881940?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="stottsco"/><br /><sub><b>stottsco</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/feder-observatory/stellarphot/commits?author=stottsco" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" size="13px" colspan="7">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/all-contributors/all-contributors-cli/1b8533af435da9854653492b1327a23a4dbd0a10/assets/logo-small.svg">
          <a href="https://all-contributors.js.org/docs/en/bot/usage">Add your contributions</a>
        </img>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
</table>


<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->


## License

This project is Copyright (c) 2019-2024 The Stellarphot Team and licensed under the terms of the BSD 3-Clause license. This package is based upon the [Astropy package template](https://github.com/astropy/package-template) which is licensed under the BSD 3-clause license.
